Hello everyone and welcome back to this final part of the Python crash course.
And in this part we'll discuss functions land expressions we'll talk briefly about the map and filter
built in functions and we'll go over a couple of useful methods off some of the data types that we discussed.
Let's get started by talking about functions and basically how we can create our own functions using
Python.
So to create your own function using Python you start off with the keyword DPF to define your function
and functions are going to be lowercase So we'll just say something like my underscore phunk then close
parentheses colon.
And then you have the block of code that will execute whenever you actually call your function.
Remember a function is basically just something that allows you to execute a block of code over and
over again without having to rewrite that entire block you just called a single function.
So we'll have it say something like Prince.
Hello.
I run that to define it and then if I call my phunk it executes Hello.
So what else I can do if a function is adding parameters so I can have a parameter here we'll just call
it parameter and then inside of my function I can actually have Parama.
So what does it actually mean.
Well it means that my function accepts a parameter or some sort of argument and then we can use it inside
the function itself.
So if I run this if I try running my func Again it's actually going to give me an error.
It's going to say hey I expected one required a positional argument.
Primm so requires this argument or parameter.
So it's provided one will just give it Jose and it just prints out Jose.
So that's the way you can create a function that has parameters.
You can also set default values for parameters but it's just set in equals and then some sort of default
value.
So when your function has a default value if you run it with a value that you provide it will overwrite
the default.
But if you don't provide it with anything it will just go to the default value here.
So another thing we can actually add into this function is the documentation string.
So you've seen documentation strings by using shift tab.
If you want to add in your own documentation string to a function just have a set of triple quotes and
notices you begin typing those three double quotes there.
Jupiter will automatically fill in that and that allows you to write in a multi-line string where the
docstring will go here will say docstring goes here.
And then I can rerun that in if I call my phunk I end up getting default.
But if I have my cursor inside of this and shift tab I get to end up seeing my documentation's string
where it just says docstring goes here.
And it also tells you what the parameters are and what the default values for the parameters are.
So you're calling a shift tab it's going into whatever library using and reading off those documentation's
strings in those parameters.
So notice here this function was just printing the parameter.
Usually you won't have a function just do simple print statements but it's going to do instead because
it's going to actually return the parameter.
So for the argument let's just call this arguments and in here will take in arguments and we'll expect
the argument to be a number so we'll do it just say times 5.
So we have that.
And then when I call my funk and pass five what I can end up doing is saying X equal to my funk.
And then when I type in X it's now returning the argument times 5.
So this is different than just printing it out because the return statement allows me to return it in
order to save it to a variable later on.
So usually when using functions you'll want to return whatever final calculation you did.
So after you call the function you can actually get it back out and save it as a variable.
And then once you have that variable then you can feel free to print it out if you know for whatever
reason that's what you want to do.
All right.
So that is a function.
Now sometimes you don't want to actually define an entire function.
So specific use case for this is when you're using the map and filter built in functions you'll want
to actually use what's known as a lamb the expression.
That's our second topic here.
So he lambda expression is known as an anonymous function.
And what it allows you to do is quickly create a function to use one time that has no name.
So let's create a normal function and they'll show you how to create an anonymous lambda expression.
So we'll create a function called Times underscore to it takes in some variable of the are and then
what it does it just returns that variable times to.
So when I call times to let's pass and for save that we'll save that as my results and then if I check
out my results I get back eight because four times two is eight.
If I only intended to use this one time in my script it may not make sense for me to write out an entire
function.
And instead what I can do is use the lambda keyword to write what's known as a lambda expression.
So the equivalent lambda expression for this would be keyword lambda var. colon.
They are times two.
So this would be the similar lambda expression version of this function.
So let's actually break down how we can convert this function into a land expression and then up next
we talk about map and filter.
We'll see why lambda expressions can be useful.
So to break down this top function into the expression we did the following things.
A land expression will use the land the keyword instead of the keyword.
So we can just delete that and then we know a land expression won't need a function name.
So we actually remove that as well.
And then we can remove these princes and then instead of just returning something since by default we
know we're going to return.
We just end up typing this and then we replace the D F with the keyword lambda.
And now you have the lambda expression.
So it's kind of show those steps one more time what's actually happening here.
We take away this the key word.
Change it to lambda.
We take away the name of the function and then instead of having a return we just put whatever is going
to return back on the same line.
On the other side of this colon that's taking over a function into a land expression.
Now this by itself isn't super useful but it's really useful.
We're using it with other functions and you want to pass in your function as an argument.
So let's discuss map and filter in order to show while an expression would be useful and we'll be using
these all the time with the library known as pandas so I'm going to create a sequence of numbers.
We'll say one two three four or five.
And then what are am going to do is use the map function and this is a function that's built into Python
so we can do shift tab on it and we can see that it maps some function to some iterable sequence.
So what does that actually mean.
Well what we can do here is say passen are times to function that we had earlier and then passen or
sequence as a queue.
And we see here it returns back.
This map objects if I want to see the result of this I can cast that to a list and then you'll notice
that it took our times to function that we defined earlier and then it said Okay apply times 2 to every
single item in the sequence.
And then we cast that to a list and we get back to four six eight 10.
So again all it does is take it in a function and applies it to a sequence.
Now maybe only intend to use times to once on the sequence.
So instead of going through the entire process of defining a function with the keyword and having a
docstring etc. you can replace times 2 by its equivalent land the expression that we define the pier.
So I'll say Lamda some variable and then return multiplying it by 2.
And if we run this we get back the exact same result.
Two four six eight ten.
And you can actually call this variable whatever you want.
So just like in a for loop it can be just some temporary variable name.
So you can say Nahm and then sometimes two in the Trill and the expression.
So that's how you can use that map with the lambda expression.
The other function I want to talk about that's built into Python is filter and filter again takes in
some function and then applies it to some iterable.
But the difference between a filter and a map is that this returns an iterator yielding those items
of an iterable for which the function item is true.
So what does that actually mean.
Well we're going to have another function say f and we'll call it is even and it takes in some number
and it's going to check if it's even or not.
So we're going to return if the number maade to is equal to zero.
Remember Number two this indicates what is the remainder after you divide it by two if you divide a
number by two and the remainder happens to be equal to zero.
Well then you know it's even so this returns either true or false.
True if the numbers even false if the number is odd.
So I will run this and then we'll say philtre passen is even.
And then we'll pass on our sequence and if you just run this you get this Filcher object so to actually
see the results you'll have a list here.
And then we get back the even numbers of our list remember there was 1 2 3 4 5.
The only even numbers were 2 and 4.
And this is another situation where we could use a lambda expression so see if you can pause the video
and replace is even here with an equivalent lambda expression.
All right I'll walk through that right now instead of saying if I'm going say Lamda will take away is
even will take away the return keyword.
And there we have it the equivalent lambda expression.
So then I just copy this and paste that in here.
Run this and then we get to come for.
So when you're new to Python if you just see this one line here it kind of looks a little bit crazy
but this is actually normal Python.
Some efficient code these one liners they pop up a lot especially some of the libraries we're using
so it takes a little bit of time to get your mindset adjusted to these kind of clever one liners.
But once you work for them more and more and get more comfortable Python will start to feel a lot more
natural to you.
Again don't worry too much if this felt like an overload of very specific Python things.
You'll get enough practice as we go along to the course that by the end you'll be a pro in this.
OK.
Finally I want to just discuss a few simple methods that you may find useful as we continue on through
this course.
The first ones are just string methods.
So if I say Hello my name is s.m I can make sure.
Well let me change this so that s is capitalized.
There we go.
One of the methods I can call to lowercase everything in a string is just s t that lower and that will
lowercase everything in that string.
Likewise I can call s t the upper and that will uppercase everything and note here that in order to
actually execute this I need to call these princes if I just call it without We'll just report back
hey this is some function here that your haven't called yet.
And then when you run this then you've actually called it in the last method I want to show you for
a string is the split method and that one is pretty useful.
So let's create Let's create another string we'll call it tweets and this will just say Go sports hash
tag cool.
Something like that.
Now you can use the dot split method to actually split on particular spaces or characters.
So if I say tweets and then call the split method on this one it ends up doing is by default it splits
on the whitespace of the string and returns back a list of everything split on the whitespace so that
allows you to actually get back a list and iterate through every word in this string.
Now you can actually split on whatever character you want.
So if you want to you could split instead on the hash tag and run this and then it will split on the
hash tag it'll give you back.
Go sports and then cool which then allows you to kind of grab stuff from this list and then it could
do indexing off of this maybe index for one that returns back.
Cool.
So again this is very kind of pythoness the code here.
Split is very useful.
Now there's a bunch of other methods available on strings if you want to see them all just off of any
data type call dots and then you'll see the tab excuse me.
And then you'll see the list of methods.
A lot of these we won't ever need to use but just keep in mind that there for you in case we need them.
OK so those are useful methods for strings.
If we look back or a dictionary that we created earlier with key 10 key to 10 and second item if you
ever need just the keys or items of a dictionary we can and that doing as you can call the doc keys
and sort of turn back kind of a list of the Keys Key key to remember they're not going to be returning
in any sort of order if you want the actual items it's going to return back a tuple a list of tuples
excuse me with the item pairs.
So are key 10 key to second item.
In case you ever need that.
So there are some useful methods of a dictionary.
You can always explore more of them by saying that tab and you here you can see the list of methods
and attributes you can call off a dictionary object.
We'll be using those too often of course so don't worry about it too much.
OK.
Finally for a list so let's create some listed say my list is equal to 1 2 3.
Run that we already know that we can call up a pen on a list and that allows us to add something to
the end of the list.
So now if I check out my list I see one two three four if I ever want to remove an item from a list.
All I need to do is say my list pop and that will remove the very last item in a list.
If you want to remove an item at a certain index location.
You just pass in that index location the pop so he can see my list of pop.
And that removes one.
Keep in mind this does take a permanent effect on your lists.
If I call my list now it no longer has four or one it just has two and three.
And the very last thing I want to talk about is checking if a element is in a list.
They can do that simply with the keyword.
So if you want to check the number one is in my list you just need to run this in or turn back.
True or false.
So if I don't check if 2 is in my list it returns true like why is it do something like is a in one
too two that's going to return False if I add in as an item in that list then it returns true.
All right.
And this concludes this quick Python crash course coming up next.
It's going to be a quick overview of the exercise notebook and then after that we'll go over the solutions.
The exercise notebook.
Okay thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.